doc: wifi: Move Regulatory Certification Testing doc to NCS (#21024)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/wifi/regulatory_certification/test_setup.rst

.. _ug_wifi_test_setup:

Test setup
##########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

An overview of software test samples, hardware development platforms, test modes, and firmware configurations is provided to help prepare your device for regulatory testing.

Test samples
************

> Software test samples available in |NCS| can be used for regulatory testing of the nRF70 Series devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the software test samples available in |NCS| for regulatory testing of the nRF70 Series devices.
```

Wi-Fi Radio test sample
=======================

The Wi-Fi® Radio test sample is used to configure and control the Wi-Fi radio on the nRF70 Series device.
The Wi-Fi Radio test firmware supports the configuration of the Wi-Fi radio in specific modes and with various TX and RX parameters to test its performance.

For an overall description, see :ref:`wifi_radio_sample_desc`.
The sub-commands that can be used to configure the radio are described in Wi-Fi :ref:`wifi_radio_subcommands`.
For more information on using the sample for regulatory testing, see :ref:`Using the Wi-Fi Radio test sample <ug_wifi_radio_test_sample>`.

Wi-Fi Shell sample
==================

The Wi-Fi Shell sample runs on the :term:`Device Under Test (DUT)` and allows the control of Wi-Fi functionality through a shell interface.

> The sample allows the DUT to connect to a Wi-Fi access point device and expose a shell interface through an UART console to run relevant Wi-Fi Shell commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample allows the DUT to connect to a Wi-Fi access point device and expose a shell interface through a UART console to run relevant Wi-Fi Shell commands.
```

Radio test (short-range) sample
===============================

The Radio test (short-range) sample demonstrates how to configure and test the performance of a 2.4 GHz radio (Bluetooth® Low Energy, IEEE 802.15.4 and proprietary).

The Radio test firmware supports the configuration of 2.4 GHz radio in specific modes and with various TX and RX parameters to test its performance.

For an overall description, see :ref:`radio_test` sample.
For more information on using the sample for regulatory testing, see :ref:`Using the Radio test (short-range) sample <ug_using_short_range_sample>`.

Test hardware
*************

Use the nRF70 Series hardware development platforms for regulatory testing.

The nRF70 Series includes the following platforms:

* nRF7002 :term:`Development Kit (DK)` – A single-board solution featuring the Wi-Fi 6 capabilities of the nRF7002 companion IC and the nRF5340 :term:`System on Chip (SoC)`.
* nRF7002 :term:`Evaluation Kit (EK)` – A shield board used for evaluating the nRF7002 companion IC. The EK is compatible with the nRF52840, nRF5340, and nRF91 DKs through its Arduino connector.

> For hardware information, see user guides `nRF7002 DK Hardware`_ and `nRF7002 EK Hardware`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For hardware information, see the user guides `nRF7002 DK Hardware`_ and `nRF7002 EK Hardware`_.
```

For more information on the boards in nRF Connect for Desktop, see :ref:`Getting started with nRF70 Series <ug_nrf7002_gs>`.

.. figure:: images/nrf7002_dk_front.png
   :alt: nRF7002 DK, top view

   nRF7002 DK, top view

.. figure:: images/nrf7002_ek_top.png
    :alt: nRF7002 EK, top view

    nRF7002 EK, top view

Test modes
**********

Set up the nRF70 Series hardware development platforms in test configurations for both non-signaling and signaling mode.
These two test modes are used to execute regulatory certification test cases.

Non-signaling mode
==================

> This section describes Wi-Fi test setup using applications that do not require the nRF7002 to be associated with an access point or test equipment supporting Wi-Fi access point mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes Wi-Fi test setup using applications that do not require the nRF7002 device to be associated with an access point or test equipment supporting Wi-Fi access point mode.
```

TX test setup for packet generation
-----------------------------------

The following testbed setup is used for performing Wi-Fi and short-range RF based transmitter testing.

.. figure:: images/non_signaling_tx_testbed.svg
   :alt: Testbed setup for RF based transmitter testing

   Testbed setup for RF based transmitter testing

RX test setup for PER measurement
---------------------------------

The following testbed setup is used for performing Wi-Fi and short-range :term:`Packet Error Rate (PER)` based TX/RX testing.

.. figure:: images/non_signaling_rx_testbed.svg
   :alt: Testbed setup for PER based TX/RX testing

   Testbed setup for PER based TX/RX testing

> As an alternative, the TX-DUT can be replaced with an appropriate Vector Signal Generator (VSG), for example Rohde and Schwarz CMW-500.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative, you can replace the TX-DUT with an appropriate Vector Signal Generator (VSG), for example Rohde and Schwarz CMW-500.
```

TX test setup for adaptivity testing
------------------------------------

For information on TX testing (adaptivity), see :ref:`ug_wifi_adaptivity_test_procedure`.

Signaling mode
==============

This section describes Wi-Fi test setup using applications that require the nRF7002 to be associated with an access point or test equipment supporting Wi-Fi Access Point mode.

.. figure:: images/signaling_testbed_accesspoint.svg
   :alt: Testbed setup with access point

   Testbed setup with access point

Firmware setup
**************

This describes the flashing, running, and use of the appropriate console ports while using test applications on the nRF7002 DK or EK.

Programming firmware in the nRF7002 setup
=========================================

Before you begin, make sure you have the nrfjprog tool installed on your computer.

> It can be downloaded at `nRF Command Line Tools Downloads`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download it at `nRF Command Line Tools Downloads`_.
```

To program firmware in the nRF7002 DK or EK setup, complete the following steps.

1. Connect your computer to the nRF7002 kit with a USB cable.
#. Switch the nRF7002 kit ON.
#. Open a command prompt window.
#. If the read back protection mechanism on the DK or EK is enabled, use the following command to unlock the device and disable the read back protection mechanism before loading the firmware:

   .. code-block:: console

       $ nrfjprog --recover

   .. note::
      Firmware loading returns an error if the read back protection mechanism is enabled.

#. To program the relevant hex (binaries) to the application core on the nRF7002 DK or EK, copy in the following commands excluding the dollar sign:

   * For Wi-Fi Radio test in combined mode:

     .. code-block:: console

        $ nrfjprog --program merged.hex -f NRF53 --coprocessor CP_APPLICATION --verify --chiperase –-reset

>    * For Station (STA), Shell, and stand alone Wi-Fi Radio test samples:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * For Station (STA), Shell, and stand-alone Wi-Fi Radio test samples:
```

     .. code-block:: console

        $ nrfjprog --program zephyr.hex -f NRF53 --coprocessor CP_APPLICATION --verify --chiperase –-reset

#. Program the relevant hex (binaries) to the network core on the nRF7002 DK:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ nrfjprog --program merged_CPUNET.hex -f NRF53 --coprocessor CP_NETWORK --verify --chiperase --reset

> #. To run the firmware on the nRF7002 DK or EK, reset the device by pressing the reset button, using the reset command in nrfjprog, or power cycling the development kit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. To run the firmware on the nRF7002 DK or EK, reset the device.
   You can press the reset button, use the reset command in nrfjprog, or power cycle the development kit.
```

   .. note::

>       The baud rate must be set to 115,200 bps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Set the baud rate to 115,200 bps.
```

      For more information, see :ref:`ug_wifi_test_setup_vcom_settings`.

.. _ug_wifi_test_setup_vcom_settings:

VCOM settings
=============

Use a baud rate setting of 115,200 bps.

To choose the correct COM port to interact with the network core on the nRF7002 DK or EK, connect your computer to the nRF7002 board with a USB cable and enter the following command in the command prompt window:

.. code-block:: console

    $ nrfjprog --com

> Typically, VCOM0 is connected to the nRF5340 network core running a Radio test (short-range) and VCOM1 is connected to the nRF5340 application core running a Wi-Fi Radio test. Verify the mapping of the COM ports based on the available commands for each port, see Short-range Radio test port, Wi-Fi Radio test port, and the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, VCOM0 is connected to the nRF5340 network core running a Radio test (short-range) and VCOM1 is connected to the nRF5340 application core running a Wi-Fi Radio test.
Verify the mapping of the COM ports based on the available commands for each port, see Short-range Radio test port, Wi-Fi Radio test port, and the following example:
```
